Title: Fear across the senses: brain responses to music, vocalizations and facial expressions
Authors: William Aube, Arafat Angulo-Perkins, Isabelle Peretz, Luis Concha, Jorge L. Armony
Publication: Soc Cogn Affect Neurosci
BEAM: How large of an effect sound design contributes to the fear response in horror games, regardless of visual input. 


Title: Hippocampal GABA Receptors Constrain Generalized Contextual Fear
Authors: Josephy F Lynch, Patrick Winiecki, T Lee Gilman, Jordan M Adkins, Aaron M Jasnow
Publication: Neuropsychopharmacology
BEAM: The mechanisms contributing to generalized fear to neutral or ambient stimuli - also in the context of anxiety disorders, where fear responses to neutral or ambient stimuli is present. 


Title: Neuronal Ensembles in Amygdala, Hippocampus, and Prefrontal Cortex Track Differential Components of Contextual Fear
Authors: Moriel Zelikowsky, Sarah Hersman, Monica K. CHawla, Carol A. Barnes, Michael S. Fanselow
Publication: J Neurosci
BEAM: The role that the amygdala, hippocampus, and prefrontal cortex play in the fear response


Title: Silent Hill: The Terror Engine
Authors: Bernard Perron
Publication: Book
BEAM: Going to analyze Silent Hill, one of the most influential games that shaped the horror genre. Will connect some key things the game uses to create fear. 


Title: The differential effects of agency on fear induction using a horror-themed video game
Authors: Kyle E. Madsen
Publication: Elsevier
BEAM: Why horror games elicit such a strong physiological fear response in comparison to horror movies (difference is agency), and how that contributes to why horror games are so addictive. 


Title: The Therapeutic Value of Horror Video Games
Authors: Farah Mohammed
Publication: JStor Daily
BEAM: To make an argument that horror games can actually be a source of therapy. 

I will be talking about the psychology of horror games. I want to analyze the mechanisms that horror games employ in order to incite fear in the player. I want to also discuss how the fear response actually begins in a player and the physiological processes it goes through, and what effects it has. I will make connections to the biology of fear to the elements that are used in horror games, and then hopefully I want to write about how horror games can be used as therapy. "The horrific experience of videogames, and hence their cathartic appeal, emerges whne a game produces a constant level of anxiety in players while allowing the players to act on it. Generally enjoy, rather than avoid, the combination of permanent death... and the drive to strengthen their characters and make them safe." 

"It is our human nature to be attracted to the horrific and obtain pleasure from encountering it because this is how we gain a partial and temporary victory over ourselves." 
