p6
The game limits what you are allowed to do (does not let the gamer create the path through the game world) but it allows how you navigate. 

p7
experience of emotion
two types of induced emotion: 
1. fiction emotions, which are rooted in the fictional world with the concerns addressed by that world
2. artifact emotions, which arise from concerns related to the artifact, as well as stimulus characteristics based on those concerns.

p8
"Our experience of 'art' is based on our insight into the way in which a given creator realizes specific intentions that are only fully understandable as a choice selected among several possible options, and this demands expertise."

Although survival horror enthusiasts have a desire to experience fear as intensively and as abundantly as possible, and fiction emotions and artifact emotions are appropriate to video game studies, they can neither be considered straightforwardly nor be thought of as sufficient for the task. 

being in control and not in control 

p11 
no more than oneself and the world

p12 
how play is innate

"our ability to empathize with, identify with, and cognitively simulate the situation of other members of our species is linked to the evident survival value of these prosocial activities

p13
so as to try to discover this very fearful unknown and an imaginative engagement, in which one is willing to "creatively speculate about what the monster might be like ,what it might want and how it might be changed". 

forces a virtual physical engagement since the gamer - 

active creation of belief

p16
repititiveness

p22 
It is easy to be overcome by panic in first and third person perspectives while being attacked by a monster, but you're more effectively overcome by horror when you actually see your player character out of your control being (b)eating to death in a corner and dragged along the ground by a zombie to the stone altar. 

p26-27
Becuase SH1 takes place inside, outside, and in overlapping real and alternative worlds, it builds a whole new frightening atmosphere. 

The limits remain uncertain -- referring to technical limitation in processing resources and compensating by limiting field of vision. 


p28
Turning lights off
Audio 

Fear of the dark comes first in Stephen King's list of ten key fears that underpin the creation of emotion in horror texts. 

Psychological horror - the entire game is governed more by its atmosphere than by its action, by what is felt rather than by what is done. 

"I'm aiming to create fear which gets deep into human instinct ... not fear by surprise but by creating a feeling of anxiety" 

p29
certain "strangeness" that was present in the game and in our daily lives. What I mean by "strangeness" is unexplained occurrences that can happen on and off without any real. 

be able to deliver dramatic scares to the player continuously throughout the game. 

"art-horror" the fear and disgust that horror narratives and images are designed to elicit from the audience. 

READ "THE PHILOSOPHY OF HORROR OR PARADOXES OF THE HEART" by NOEL CARROLL. 

p30
that has both a physcal and cognitive dimension. Insofar as the etymology of the word "emotion" refers to the idea of "moving out", it involves the experience of a change of physical state, from a normal to an agitated one. 

"deeply felt physical agitation" 

"cosmic fear" -- HP Lovecraft 
!!! "a malign and particular suspension or defeat of those fixed laws of Nature whic are our only safeguard against the assaults of chaos and the daemons of unplumbed space" 

horror of Lovecraft

p31
expresses the belief that forbidden knowledge could destroy the human race and that there are unknown forces beyond the realm of our universe, forces as equally fascinating as dangerous. 

Art horror and cosmic fear can be seen as the two poles of creating fear. 

!!! the difference between horror and terror remain very informative. Horror is compared to an almost physical loathing, and its cause is always external, perceptible, comprehensible, measurable, and apparently material, while terror is identified with the more imaginative and subtle anticipatory dread. "In fact, terror is always of the indeterminate and incomprehensible of unseen but sensed or suspected, or of the imperfectly seen". Terror engenders a wonder in the face of the inexplicable supernatural. "The most common time of terror is night a great absence of light and therefore a great time of uncertainty". Without day's light, certainy, and clear vision, there is no safe time; terror expands on a longer duration. But we should not place terror and horror expands on a longer duration. But we should not place terror horror in direct opposition, as the Gothic writers did. As Dani Cavallaro observes in The Gothic Vision: "Binary oppositions ... are ultimately bounds to prove reductive rationalization. What is ... proposed, in an attempt to avert the dangers implicit in binary thought, is that terror and horror are closely interconnected and that each is capable of metamorphosing into the other". The truly scary stories actually go further. 

p34 
experience through the diegetic effect: the illusion of being present in a fictional and virtual world, te gamer feels as if he were physically present in a real self-contained world that already exists before he gains access to it and as if he were witnessing the action taking place around him. 

